README.md, before:

![Feder Logo](/doc/logo.png)

63.57%  Java
32.47%  Feder
1.99%   Shell
1.10%   Batchfile
0.51%   C
0.22%   Go
0.14%   Python

## Introduction

Feder is a programming language, which aims to be simple and yet fast.
Currently, Feder source code can be compiled with jfederc (The Java Feder
compiler, a Feder compiler written in Java). The Feder compiler and Feder
stdlib (Feder Standard Library) are written for POSIX and Windows systems.

Attention: Currently, because of the "Jugend forscht" contest, issues can't be
created and you can't submit any changes to the project.

## Further development

The most active development process is in the repository
[federc](https://github.com/codefionn/federc).

What should be changed (if you want something to be changed, write an email to
"fionn.langhans@gmail.com"):

- The current file extension for Feder source  code is ".fd". But that's also
  an (not so common?) extension for describing fonts in (La-)Tex. Should the
  extension be changed to something else (like ".feder") ?

- Should memory safety be improved (even when the size of possible standard
  libraries would shrink) ?

## Requirements

A Java enviroment ([JDK version >= 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html))
and the programs of the JDK have to be available in the console environment
(```$PATH: export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/jdk/bin or
set PATH = $PATH:/path/to/jdk/bin```, %PATH%:
[Windows Environment variables](https://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm)).
Requires: javac, java, jar. The compiler does also require a C compiler available
in the PATH environment variable. The default one is 'cc'. You can change the
used compiler program with the option '--toolchain [compiler]'. If you want to
use the compiler of MS Visual Studio also pass the '--usewinop option to the
program (If you want to use clang: Install clang and put the bin directory in
path variable, then use the --toolchain option to change the used compiler).

You should also have installed a bash environment (on Windows [Cygwin](https://cygwin.com/)). This is
optional, but is required if you want to do the tutorials right below.

## Installation on Unixes

```
$ git clone https://github.com/codefionn/feder.git
$ cd feder
$ ./scripts/build.sh
$ sudo ./scripts/install.sh
```

## Installation on Windows

Execute as admin:

```
> git clone https://github.com/codefionn/feder.git
> cd feder
> .\scripts\build.cmd
> .\scripts\install.cmd
```

".\scripts\install.cmd" notifies you to add "C:\Program Files\jfederc" to the
Path environment variable [Windows Environment variables](https://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm).

### Uninstalling

To uninstall Feder simply execute the uninstall.sh script in the master directory
of the project.

```
$ sudo ./scripts/uninstall.sh
```

### Install to another location

If you want to install Feder to another location (e.g.: ~/.local) use:

```
$ ./scripts/install.sh ~/.local
```


Uninstalling would look like this:

```
$ ./scripts/uninstall.sh ~/.local
```

### Cleaning up

Now you have the scripts called "jfederc" and "jfedercnolib" at your complete
disposal. "jfederc" already includes the Feder Standard Library, but if you
don't want that, you should probably use "jfedercnolib", which doesn't include
any libraries. Cleanup (optional, don't do this if you want to read examples
written in Feder):

```
$ cd ..
$ rm -rf feder
```

### Installation on ArchLinux

jfederc is available in the ArchLinux user repository (AUR). Use any aur helper
or clone it directly from the AUR (in the example aurman is used).

```
$ aurman -S jfederc-git
```

## Testing

If an error occured during the tests, there could be an error in the Feder
compiler or in the Feder Standard Library or your setup is wrong.

```
$ ./build.sh
$ cd federlang
$ ./tests/test.sh
$ ./failtests/test.sh
```

If you want to use the clang (standard is 'cc'):

```
$ ./build.sh
$ cd federlang
$ ./tests/test.sh --toolchain clang
$ ./failtests/test.sh --toolchain clang
```

## Hello World

```
$ cat > hello_world.fd << EOF
> include "stdio.fd"
> 
> io.println ("Hello, World!")
> EOF
$ jfederc -D build hello_world.fd
$ ./build/hello_world
Hello, World!
```
Well that was the fast way, in different words:

Create a files called 'hello\_world.fd'. The contents of that file should be:

```
include "stdio.fd"

io.println ("Hello, World!")
```

Then open the console in the directory, where you saved the file and type:

```
$ jfederc -D build hello_world.fd
$ ./build/hello_world
Hello, World!
```

Examples are in /federlang/programs and little tutorials in [/doc/tutorials/](/doc/tutorials).

## Files

```
|-- LICENSE         zlib license
|-- README.md
|-- doc
|   |-- Feder.odt   Document for the "Jugend Forscht" contest
|   |-- Feder.pdf   PDF of Feder.odt
|   |-- feder.7     Wants to be a man-page
|   |-- java_api    Documentation of the Java-Feder compiler (jfederc)
|   |-- logo.png    The Feder logo
|   `-- tutorials   Tutorials for writing Feder source code (jfederc std lib)
|-- federlang
|   |-- base        jfederc Standard Library
|   |-- clean.sh    Delete builds
|   |-- comparison  Compare performance of Feder with other languages
|   |-- compiler    Moved to https://github.com/codefionn/federc
|   |-- failtests   Tests which should fail (test.sh should of course not fail)
|   |-- jfederc     Execute jfederc in this or in a sub directory (bash)
|   |-- jfederc.cmd Execute jfederc in this or in a sub directory (batch)
|   |-- programs    Example programs (build with build.sh)
|   |-- tests       Test jfederc and the Standard Library (test.sh or test.cmd)
|   `-- tutorials   Programs from /doc/tutorials
|-- scripts
|   |-- build.cmd   Build jfederc (batch)
|   |-- build.sh    Build jfederc (bash)
|   |-- install.cmd Install jfederc (batch, SET ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE)
|   |-- install.sh  Install jfederc (bash)
|   |-- linguist_prepare.sh Build github/linguist with Feder support
|   `-- uninstall.sh Unistall jfederc (bash)
`-- src             Java source code (jfederc)
```


## Documentation

Documentation can be found in [/doc](/doc) and if you want a documentation run

```
$ doxygen doxyconf
```

in the main directory of the project. This generates a HTML documentation
in [/doc/java_api/html](/doc/java_api/html).

Commit message:

Added link to online api documentation

README.md, after:

![Feder Logo](/doc/logo.png)

63.57%  Java
32.47%  Feder
1.99%   Shell
1.10%   Batchfile
0.51%   C
0.22%   Go
0.14%   Python

## Introduction

Feder is a programming language, which aims to be simple and yet fast.
Currently, Feder source code can be compiled with jfederc (The Java Feder
compiler, a Feder compiler written in Java). The Feder compiler and Feder
stdlib (Feder Standard Library) are written for POSIX and Windows systems.

Attention: Currently, because of the "Jugend forscht" contest, issues can't be
created and you can't submit any changes to the project.

## Further development

The most active development process is in the repository
[federc](https://github.com/codefionn/federc).

What should be changed (if you want something to be changed, write an email to
"fionn.langhans@gmail.com"):

- The current file extension for Feder source  code is ".fd". But that's also
  an (not so common?) extension for describing fonts in (La-)Tex. Should the
  extension be changed to something else (like ".feder") ?

- Should memory safety be improved (even when the size of possible standard
  libraries would shrink) ?

## Requirements

A Java enviroment ([JDK version >= 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html))
and the programs of the JDK have to be available in the console environment
(```$PATH: export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/jdk/bin or
set PATH = $PATH:/path/to/jdk/bin```, %PATH%:
[Windows Environment variables](https://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm)).
Requires: javac, java, jar. The compiler does also require a C compiler available
in the PATH environment variable. The default one is 'cc'. You can change the
used compiler program with the option '--toolchain [compiler]'. If you want to
use the compiler of MS Visual Studio also pass the '--usewinop option to the
program (If you want to use clang: Install clang and put the bin directory in
path variable, then use the --toolchain option to change the used compiler).

You should also have installed a bash environment (on Windows [Cygwin](https://cygwin.com/)). This is
optional, but is required if you want to do the tutorials right below.

## Installation on Unixes

```
$ git clone https://github.com/codefionn/feder.git
$ cd feder
$ ./scripts/build.sh
$ sudo ./scripts/install.sh
```

## Installation on Windows

Execute as admin:

```
> git clone https://github.com/codefionn/feder.git
> cd feder
> .\scripts\build.cmd
> .\scripts\install.cmd
```

".\scripts\install.cmd" notifies you to add "C:\Program Files\jfederc" to the
Path environment variable [Windows Environment variables](https://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm).

### Uninstalling

To uninstall Feder simply execute the uninstall.sh script in the master directory
of the project.

```
$ sudo ./scripts/uninstall.sh
```

### Install to another location

If you want to install Feder to another location (e.g.: ~/.local) use:

```
$ ./scripts/install.sh ~/.local
```


Uninstalling would look like this:

```
$ ./scripts/uninstall.sh ~/.local
```

### Cleaning up

Now you have the scripts called "jfederc" and "jfedercnolib" at your complete
disposal. "jfederc" already includes the Feder Standard Library, but if you
don't want that, you should probably use "jfedercnolib", which doesn't include
any libraries. Cleanup (optional, don't do this if you want to read examples
written in Feder):

```
$ cd ..
$ rm -rf feder
```

### Installation on ArchLinux

jfederc is available in the ArchLinux user repository (AUR). Use any aur helper
or clone it directly from the AUR (in the example aurman is used).

```
$ aurman -S jfederc-git
```

## Testing

If an error occured during the tests, there could be an error in the Feder
compiler or in the Feder Standard Library or your setup is wrong.

```
$ ./build.sh
$ cd federlang
$ ./tests/test.sh
$ ./failtests/test.sh
```

If you want to use the clang (standard is 'cc'):

```
$ ./build.sh
$ cd federlang
$ ./tests/test.sh --toolchain clang
$ ./failtests/test.sh --toolchain clang
```

## Hello World

```
$ cat > hello_world.fd << EOF
> include "stdio.fd"
> 
> io.println ("Hello, World!")
> EOF
$ jfederc -D build hello_world.fd
$ ./build/hello_world
Hello, World!
```
Well that was the fast way, in different words:

Create a files called 'hello\_world.fd'. The contents of that file should be:

```
include "stdio.fd"

io.println ("Hello, World!")
```

Then open the console in the directory, where you saved the file and type:

```
$ jfederc -D build hello_world.fd
$ ./build/hello_world
Hello, World!
```

Examples are in /federlang/programs and little tutorials in [/doc/tutorials/](/doc/tutorials).

## Files

```
|-- LICENSE         zlib license
|-- README.md
|-- doc
|   |-- Feder.odt   Document for the "Jugend Forscht" contest
|   |-- Feder.pdf   PDF of Feder.odt
|   |-- feder.7     Wants to be a man-page
|   |-- java_api    Documentation of the Java-Feder compiler (jfederc)
|   |-- logo.png    The Feder logo
|   `-- tutorials   Tutorials for writing Feder source code (jfederc std lib)
|-- federlang
|   |-- base        jfederc Standard Library
|   |-- clean.sh    Delete builds
|   |-- comparison  Compare performance of Feder with other languages
|   |-- compiler    Moved to https://github.com/codefionn/federc
|   |-- failtests   Tests which should fail (test.sh should of course not fail)
|   |-- jfederc     Execute jfederc in this or in a sub directory (bash)
|   |-- jfederc.cmd Execute jfederc in this or in a sub directory (batch)
|   |-- programs    Example programs (build with build.sh)
|   |-- tests       Test jfederc and the Standard Library (test.sh or test.cmd)
|   `-- tutorials   Programs from /doc/tutorials
|-- scripts
|   |-- build.cmd   Build jfederc (batch)
|   |-- build.sh    Build jfederc (bash)
|   |-- install.cmd Install jfederc (batch, SET ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE)
|   |-- install.sh  Install jfederc (bash)
|   |-- linguist_prepare.sh Build github/linguist with Feder support
|   `-- uninstall.sh Unistall jfederc (bash)
`-- src             Java source code (jfederc)
```


## Documentation

Documentation can be found in [/doc](/doc) and if you want a documentation run

```
$ doxygen doxyconf
```

in the main directory of the project. This generates a HTML documentation
in [/doc/java_api/html](/doc/java_api/html). Can be found online: [jfederc-doc](https://codefionn.github.io/jfederc-doc)
