.\" Manpage for feder
.\" Copyright (C) 2018 Fionn Langhans
.\" (fionn.langhans@gmail.com)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Feder programming language is constantly changing,
.\" this manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s)
.\" assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting
.\" from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FEDER 7 2018-02-15 "Feder" "Feder Manual"
.SH NAME
feder \- A short introduction to Feder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY jfederc
.OP \-D builddir
.OP \-O program_name
.I files
.YS

.SY federc
.OP operation
.OP arguments
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes, how to write little programs with the Feder programming
language and how to compile them. Currently Feder can only be compiled with
the jfederc (Java Feder Compiler, a Feder compiler written in Java).
.SS Basics
In Feder bodies can be started with
.IR class ", " namespace ", " type ", " func ", " if ", " else " and " while "."
.RI "Bodies must be terminated with"
.BR ';' ". All bodies have to be closed at the end of the source file."
.RB "Bodies can contain other bodies, but some bodies mustn't contain specific"
.RB "bodies."

.RB "To comment the code use the " # " operator to make the compiler ignore the"
.RB "source code from that point till"
.RB "the end of the line. If you want to comment over several lines use the " ##
.RB "operator. If you want to terminate the multi-line comment use the " ## 
.RB "operator again."

.B Examples

.EX
.BR # " comment"
.IR code " # comment"
.BR "## " I
am a very,
very long
comment reaching
over several
.RB lines " ##"
.EE
.\" End of Basics
.SS Objects
Feder handles object in three different way: as an object created with a class,
as an object created with an interface and as an object created with a type.
Only the object created with a class can be a dynamic one, all others are
static. The specifier of an object created with a class or a type can be
guessed, but the specifier of an interface can't really be guessed, so you have
to explicitly declare an object, which should be created with an interface, with
an interface.
.TP 10
.B Create object with class
[
.I class
] [
.BI '[]'
]
.I name
[
.BI '='
.I objectWithClass
]
.\" End object with class definition

Examples:
.EX
String s = String
s0 = String
s1 = s0.cp ()
.EE
.TP
.B Create object with type
[
.I type
] [
.BI '[]'
]
.I name
[
.BI '='
.I objectWithArray
]
.\" End object with type definition
.TP
.B Create object with interface
.I interface name
[
.BI '='
.I objectWithInterface
|
.I function
]
.\" End object with interface definition
.SS Classes
Classes in Feder are structures that can contain objects and functions. They
also can inherit class and objects from another class.

Create a class:

.BI 'class'
.I name
[
.I ClassToInheritFrom
]

A class starts a new body, so if you want to close the body use
.BI ';'
